I'm going to show you how to make
shortcrust pastry the best way to make
pastry I think is in a food processor
rather than by hand this way you don't
overwork it and you're not you haven't
got your hands into the ingredient so
you're not going to melt that butter so
this is quite a standard recipe I've got
200 grams of flour I'm just going to tip
in I'm going to add a little pinch of
salt you do this whether you're making a
sweet or a savory pastry because it just
helps the flavor and then I'm going to
pop in some butter now this is 100 grams
of very cold butter straight from the
fridge I'm going to pop that in with the
flour now if you did want to make this
into a sweet pastry pop in the sugar at
this stage and I'm just gonna pop that
lid on and I'm going to pulse it until I
get a very fine crumb mixture let's have
a check and get in and feel the little
lumps of butter with your fingers now
it's still a little bit lumpy I'm down
to about sort of pea-sized bits of
butter so I'm going to have a go again
that's perfect
I can feel fine crumbs there's no big
lumps of butter so I've got to add my
liquid now and we're going to bring it
together into pastry I've got one egg
yolk you don't have to add egg yolk into
the pastry but it gives it a more rich
flavor and to that I'm going to add 1
tablespoon of water mix together the egg
yolk and the water and I'm going to add
this into the flour you want to add as
little liquid as possible because the
less liquid you add the shorter and more
crumbly and buttery your pastry is gonna
be so take 1 tablespoon of that mixture
dribble that in and let's pulse it again
[Music]
it's not quite coming together so I'm
gonna add a bit more sometimes the
amount of liquid will vary it depends on
the humidity on the type of flour that
you're using so I've added about another
tablespoon there that's have another go
so I've just post it one final time and
it looks like it's coming together now
that's perfect if I show you I can start
to clump that together into pastry
tip that out now on to my work surface
and bring it together into one level
again I'm gonna barely touch it because
I don't want to overwork it so I'm going
to be as quick as I can all of that out
myself a little bit more space to work
now if you need a bit of flour you can
put some down but I've got quite a good
work surface here I'm just literally and
carefully bringing it together I'm not
going to need it or get too much into it
my hands or anything like that
just bringing all the crumbs together so
I have one solid piece of pastry I'm
just gonna get some cling film and wrap
it up because I'm gonna chill it in the
fridge for about 30 minutes before I
work with it now if you've got longer
put it in for longer what this does it
does two things it's gonna make it a lot
easier when you come to use it it's
gonna be firmer for rolling out and
things like that and also it's going to
give the chance for the gluten to rest a
little bit so if it has become a bit
overworked while you've been making it
once it's rested it'll be tender again
and it won't be tough so that is how you
make short cross pastry